All right let's put together our poster questing and alert for handling a submission of these sign in
form.
So inside of here we're going to have to go through a similar series of steps as we did when we signed
up a user just a little bit ago.
So in the case of signing in a user here's what we're going to have to do.
We first need to make sure that a user has signed up with the provided email if no one has ever signed
up for this given e-mail before.
That means that there's nothing for this user to sign into.
So if no one has signed up with this e-mail then we're going to show an error.
After that we'll compare the password of the saved user with one that was just provided if they're identical.
Then we're going to sign in the user.
Otherwise if they're different then we're going to show an heir to the user.
So let's start to put that stuff together back inside of our post request handler for sign in.
I'm first going to try to find inside of our Rec object the email and password that were provided inside
the form.
Remember all of our form data is contained inside of the wrecked body property.
So I going to d structure out the email and password.
We know that the erect body property is going to have an email and password specifically because those
are the names so we put on the two inputs inside of our form email and password and we'll take the email
that was provided and we'll check to see if there is an existing user inside of our database with that
email.
So I will do consider user is a weight user so many users repo.
Let's double check the spelling on that.
Yep users plural so users repo.
And we're going to do the get one by method.
Remember that's the method that we use whenever we want to search.
Given some criteria like say just the users email then we'll pass in we want to find an email or any
user with the email of the email provided.
Once again we've got a key and valued that are identical.
So a collapse it down like so then after that we'll say if there is not a user that was found.
Because remember if we don't find a user the state is going to return undefined.
So there is no user that means something went wrong and we need to return early and we'll send back
an error message the user that says email not found
and after that if we get past That's IF statement that means that we did find a user.
So then at that point in time we need to check and see if the user is safe password is equal to the
one that was just provided.
So we'll say if user dot password is not equal to the password that was provided then let's once again
return.
We'll do a resort sense and we'll send back an error like invalid password now if we get past both those
checks it means that the user is valid and their attempt to sign in is good.
So we're going to want to consider this user to now be signed into our application in order to consider
used to be signed in.
Remember we're going to set the REC dot session dot user I.D. property to the I.D. of the user that
we just retrieved out of our database if that property is assigned it is a assigned that essentially
this user is signed into our application so after those two statements will say rec not session not
user I.D. is user that I.D..
So again that is what is making our user be considered to be authenticated with our app then after that
will send back you are signed in and that's pretty much it okay.
So let's save this and we'll test out this fall.
Low so I'm going to go back to my application.
I have not yet really created an account with an email and password that I can remember.
So going to go back to the slash sign up route I'm going to sign up with a new email of test three at
test dot com a password of password and a password confirmation a password as well.
They'll sign up the account was created if I now go back to my sign up form.
I'll see my I.D. right there which is a sign that I am signed in so I'm going to try to sign out of
my application.
Remember we can do that by going to a local host flash these locos 3000 slash.
Sign out.
So now logged out and now to sign back in I'll go to slash.
Sign in and now have to enter in my valid email and password so I'll put in test to at test dot com
and password and then sign it and I just immediately put in the incorrect e-mail.
Well let me check what I just typed in there really quickly.
So I put in 0 Test 3.
My mistake all these we know that email not found error is working correctly yes.
So there's my valid information and there we go now and signed in.
Now just to make sure that we are going to handle some of those different errors correctly.
Let's test that stuff out very quickly as well.
So I got to first sign out once again by going to slash sign out well then go back to slash sign in
now put in a garbage e-mail
and some random password and for this I'm going to expect to see something it says e-mail not found.
Yep sure enough I do.
Now we've tried to enter an invalid e-mail but an invalid password.
So do test three which is a valid e-mail but an invalid password.
So essentially just random characters.
Now when I try to sign in I get invalid password okay.
So that looks pretty good.
So not go now have the full flow but together we can sign up log out sign in.
All that kind of good stuff now.
This flow that we put together is pretty solid but there is one very large issue from a security standpoint
that we need to resolve before we really consider this entire flow to be in a good state.
Let's pause right here.
We'll come back the next video.
We're going to discuss the big security hole that we currently have inside of our application.